---
title: "Getting started with PodSecurityPolicy on EKS"
date: 2020-03-15T07:00:00+01:00
draft: false
images:
  - images/2020-03-15-EKS-private-cluster.png
authors:
  - stepan-vrany
tags:
  - aws
  - amazon
  - eks
  - kubernetes
  - security
---
As you might already know, security is not something that a specialized department should
be responsible for. Instead, we all should bear in mind that security matters and build
secure solutions from the very beginning. Today we're gonna talk about some practices
in the world of containerized apps and Kubernetess. So let's say we have some best practices
for the containerized workloads. But how to enforce that? We'll tell you right away.
<!--more-->

And the answer is actually pretty straightforward. Do you want to enforce some security policies?
Use [Pod Security Policy resource](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/).
In reality, Pod Security Policy is just an admission controller which is able to check if
pods comply to assigned set of rules.

For instance, we can check if pod is not running in privileged mode or we can also restrict
the use of certain volumes types, this comes handy for example when you don't want to
allow access to host filesystem.

So why do I even write this post? We have some specialized resource so we just create it
and that's it, right? Well, it's not that easy. And that's why I wrote this article. Let's begin.

## Key principles

As already mentioned, Pod Security Policy is just another Kubernetes resource.
The following document contains a really simple policy that prohibits the run of
privileged containers. 

```yaml
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  name: example
spec:
  privileged: false
  seLinux:
    rule: RunAsAny
  supplementalGroups:
    rule: RunAsAny
  runAsUser:
    rule: RunAsAny
  fsGroup:
    rule: RunAsAny
  volumes:
  - '*'
```

But when you apply this document with `kubectl`, it just does nothing.
That's because PSP mechanism is deeply integrated with RBAC system.
In order to use this policy, you need to authorize the respective accounts
to use it first.

## RBAC magic

So this is the basic ClusterRole which authorizes the use of verb `use` on
the PSP created before.

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: psp:example
rules:
- apiGroups:
    - policy
  resources:
    - podsecuritypolicies
  verbs:
    - use
  resourceNames:
  - example
```

Now we need to bind this `ClusterRole` to the certain `ServiceAcccout`.
Here I need to step in and add some context. Why are we talking about ServiceAccounts
when the workload is created by some users from flesh and bones?

The thing is that usually, we don't create pod resources by ourselves but
we're using some controllers instead. You can check more details in the
[official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/). So the whole job is done by *someone else* hence
we need to bind `ClusterRole` accordingly. To show you the whole picture,
here are `ServiceAccount` and `Deployment` resources we want to use for our
workload.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: app
  namespace: app-test
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: app
  namespace: app-test
  labels:
    app: app
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: app
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: app
      containers:
      - name: app
        image: mycustomnamespace/app:v1.0.0
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
```

Now we know that `ServiceAccount` `app` lives in the `app-test` `Namespace` so
we can create a suitable `ClusterRoleBinding`.

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: psp:example:app:app-test
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: psp:example
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: app
  namespace: app-test
```

From now, we should be able to run our workload as long as it does not run
in privileged mode. Sweet.

## EKS-specific configuration

But let's talk about EKS. This offering has enabled PSP out of the box.
Do you have any experience with EKS? If yes, you know then that you are able to
create any workload with no restrictions. 

However, it does not mean that *policy engine* is not enabled. The reason is that
PSP is a pretty comprehensive topic so EKS comes with preconfigured policy
bound to all authenticated users.

The key elements are `PodSecurityPolicy` `eks.privileged` and
`ClusterRoleBinding` `eks:podsecuritypolicy:authenticated`.

What I'm saying here is that in order to apply your own rules you need to delete those
resources and start on the green field.

```bash
kubectl delete podsecuritypolicy eks.privileged
kubectl delete clusterrolebinding eks:podsecuritypolicy:authenticated
```

But when you do so, please be prepared for the following: no new pods can be created
from now. You'll most likely get a similar error since we need at least
one policy in order to start any pod with Pod Security Policy enabled.

```
unable to validate against any pod security policy: []
```

> All mentioned is already documented by Amazon, personally
> I really like this [blog post](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/using-pod-security-policies-amazon-eks-clusters/) with a step-by-step guide.

## RBAC pitfalls
When applying ultra restrictive policies, time to time you might encounter situations when
the pod starts even when it does not comply with the PodSecurityPolicy.
From my experience, it's always caused by incorrectly configured RBAC.

For instance, you've allowed all verbs to all resources in the `extensions` API group
so now your `ServiceAccount` is assigned to all `PodSecurityPolicy` resources
hence the restrictions don't work as intended.

> Please also note that some resources are availabel in multiple api groups.
> For instance, `PodSecurityPolicy` can be in `policy` and `extensions` at the same time!
> Dangerous stuff 😀

But don't worry, you can address such issues with `auth can-i` [command](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#checking-api-access)!

```bash
kubectl auth can-i use podsecuritypolicy/example --namespace app-test --as app
```

## Wrap
Security really matters and you should not skip `PodSecurityPolicy`
just because it's not as straightforward as other Kubernetes resources.
Sure, this component can't save the whole world but it can help you with some
basics. Moreover, it's no so complex as you could see in this post. Give it a shot!

Do you have any specific questions regarding PSP? Do not hesitate to reach us,
we're always happy to help.

## Additional resources

- [Policy order](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/policy/pod-security-policy/#policy-order)
- [EKS step-by-step guide for PSP](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/opensource/using-pod-security-policies-amazon-eks-clusters/)
- [EKS documentation for PSP](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/pod-security-policy.html)
- [Docker best practices](https://snyk.io/blog/10-docker-image-security-best-practices/), see the section about least privileged user
- [Kubernetes security context](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/security-context/)
- [Checking API access with Kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#checking-api-access)